Title: HOW TO CONFIGURE LINK AGGREGATION ON NAS SYNOLOGY. – Techbast
Date: 2022-08-12 05:08:19
Author: Link
Category: Link
Tags: synology, LAG, link, 
Summary: Adaptive Load Balancing: This mode optimizes the network traffic received and sent by Synology NAS devices regardless of whether Link Aggregation is enabled or not. To avoid unexpected circumstances, do not enable Link Aggregation even though it is supported.

> Adaptive Load Balancing: This mode optimizes the network traffic received and sent by Synology NAS devices regardless of whether Link Aggregation is enabled or not. To avoid unexpected circumstances, do not enable Link Aggregation even though it is supported.
> IEEE 802.3ad Dynamic Link Aggregation: This mode optimizes network traffic received and sent by Synology NAS devices, which requires IEEE 802.3ad (Dynamic) Link Aggregation (LACP, 802.1AX) to be enabled on the Switch , and if multiple switches are used, they must be properly stacked and configured.
> Balance XOR: This mode will balance the network traffic received and sent by Synology NAS devices, this mode requires Static Link Aggregation to be enabled on the Switch. If multiple switches are used, they must be properly stacked and configured. If the switch does not support Link Aggregation, the traffic by the Synology NAS device is still balanced. With this mode. disconnection can be identified but not the cause (For example, when an Ethernet cable is not connected or the switch has a configuration error).
> Active / Standby: This mode will provide error correction, that is, when one network connection is disconnected or the connection is unstable, the other one will take charge as the main connection. You can choose this configuration whether or not the switch configuration supports IEEE 802.3ad Link Aggregation.

[Link to the original article](https://techbast.com/2020/03/how-to-configure-link-aggregation-on-nas-synology.html)
