Title: Custom PC magazine Issue 228 - Build a tiny killer gaming PC
Date: 2022-07-22 13:52:01
Author: Link
Category: Link
Tags: custompc, link, 
Summary: Custom PC

> Custom PC
>  
> Articles  Issues  Books  Subscribe  Buy now  
>  
>  
>  
>  
> Custom PC issue 228
> 
> Issue 228 shows you how to build a killer gaming PC in a tiny package, complete with a full-size graphics card. Not only are there reviews of ten mini-ITX boards, covering both AMD and Intel sockets, but there’s also a full feature that tells you all you need to know about choosing your case, airflow considerations and building your final mini system.
> 
> Buy now
> Subscribe
> Download Free PDF
> 
> Be Wary of Modular Fans
> 9 days ago.
> While they cut down on cable clutter, Anthony Leather warns against the performance pitfalls of clip-together fans.
> 
> 
> Asus ROG Swift PG279QM Gaming Monitor Review
> 10 days ago.
> Edward Chester scopes out this cutting-edge, yet pricey, 240Hz gaming monitor from Asus.
> 
> 
> NZXT Lift Mouse Review
> 14 days ago.
> We found it hard to find something not to like about NZXT's debut gaming mouse.
> 
> 
> Intel’s Arc desktop GPUs launch, but you still can’t buy them
> 16 days ago.
> After all the hype, Richard Swinburne is mightily disappointed by the real-world availability of Intel’s Arc GPUs
> 
> 
> Ikigai - PC Mod Inspired by Japanese Kumiko Woodworking
> 17 days ago.
> Inspired by Japanese Kumiko woodworking, Nick Falzone made this exquisite wooden scratch-build with a custom hard-tube water-cooling system.
> 
> 
> Win a Fractal Design Torrent Nano RGB Case
> 18 days ago.
> Enter now to be in with a chance of winning an award-winning mini-ITX chassis from Fractal Design.
> 
> See more articles
> What is Custom PC magazine?
> 
> Custom PC is the UK’s best-selling magazine for PC hardware, overclocking, gaming and modding. Every month, Custom PC is packed with in-depth hardware reviews, step-by-step photo guides and informative features, all with a focus on tinkering with your computer’s insides. Along the way you’ll also find hard-hitting tech opinion, game reviews and all manner of computer hobbyism goodness, from small Pi projects to extreme PC mods.
> 
> 

[Link to the original article](https://custompc.raspberrypi.com/)
