Title: Career Advice from Jim Donovan – Espresso Insight
Date: 2024-05-10 00:05:51
Author: Link
Category: Link
Tags: link, career, sp,
Summary: Career Advice from Jim Donovan - I stumbled upon “The Making of an Investment Banker”, a talk given by Jim Donovan to the UVA school of law, which was posted to their YouTube channel. I found the advice to be quite good, regardless of your chosen career path, investment banker or otherwise. 3 pieces of advice before starting your career / job: Read the Wall Street Journal every day, no matter what. You should read 3 articles: one macro article, such as related to what the Fed is doing with interest rates, for example. one on a specific company that recently released earnings, or a specific transaction / acquisition. one op-ed

> Career Advice from Jim Donovan
> I stumbled upon “The Making of an Investment Banker”, a talk given by Jim Donovan to the UVA school of law, which was posted to their YouTube channel.
> I found the advice to be quite good, regardless of your chosen career path, investment banker or otherwise.
> 3 pieces of advice before starting your career / job:
> Read the Wall Street Journal every day, no matter what. You should read 3 articles:
> one macro article, such as related to what the Fed is doing with interest rates, for example.
> one on a specific company that recently released earnings, or a specific transaction / acquisition.
> one op-ed

[Continue reading on espressoinsight.com](https://espressoinsight.com/2024/05/09/career-advice-from-jim-donovan/)
