Title: 16 open source projects transforming AI and machine learning | InfoWorld
Date: 2026-01-27 17:41:24
Author: Doug
Category: Web
Tags: opensource, ai, llm, link, 
Summary: For several decades now, the most innovative software has always emerged from the world of open source software. It’s no different with machine learning and large language models. If anything, the open source ecosystem has grown richer and more complex, because now there are open source models to complement the open source code.

> For several decades now, the most innovative software has always emerged from the world of open source software. It’s no different with machine learning and large language models. If anything, the open source ecosystem has grown richer and more complex, because now there are open source models to complement the open source code.
> 
> For this article, we’ve pulled together some of the most intriguing and useful projects for AI and machine learning. Many of these are foundation projects, nurturing their own niche ecology of open source plugins and extensions. Once you’ve started with the basic project, you can keep adding more parts.
> 
> Most of these projects offer demonstration code, so you can start up a running version that already tackles a basic task. Additionally, the companies that build and maintain these projects often sell a service alongside them. In some cases, they’ll deploy the code for you and save you the hassle of keeping it running. In others, they’ll sell custom add-ons and modifications. The code itself is still open, so there’s no vendor lock in. The services simply make it easier to adopt the code by paying someone to help.
> Here are 16 open source projects that developers can use to unlock the potential in machine learning and large language models of any size—from small to large, and even extra large.

[Read the full article at www.infoworld.com](https://www.infoworld.com/article/2336757/16-open-source-projects-transforming-ai-and-machine-learning.html)
