Title: Australia/Lord_Howe is the weirdest timezone | SSOReady
Date: 2024-11-03 16:02:38
Author: Link
Category: Link
Tags: date, timezone, link, 
Summary: The standard trope when talking about timezones is to rattle off falsehoods programmers believe about them. These lists are only somewhat enlightening – it’s really hard to figure out what truth is just from the contours of falsehood.

> The standard trope when talking about timezones is to rattle off falsehoods programmers believe about them. These lists are only somewhat enlightening – it’s really hard to figure out what truth is just from the contours of falsehood.
> 
> So here’s an alternative approach. I’m gonna show you some weird timezones. In fact, the weirdest timezones. They’re each about as weird as timezones are allowed to get in some way.
> 
> Asia/Kathmandu has a weird offset from UTC
> Africa/Casablanca doesn’t fit into the timezone model cleanly, so it’s hard-coded
> America/Nuuk does daylight savings at -01:00 (yes, with a negative)
> and Africa/Cairo and America/Santiago do it at 24 o’clock (not 0 o’clock)
> Australia/Lord_Howe, population 382 and some notable stick bugs, has the weirdest daylight savings rule
> To learn how their weirdness is represented in software, we’ll look at the raw timezone files that all software ultimately relies on. From there, two things will become clear:
> 
> Yeah, this stuff is weird
> But only finitely so, because ultimately a computer’s gotta implement them
> But first, an aside on the calendar.

[Continue reading on ssoready.com](https://ssoready.com/blog/engineering/truths-programmers-timezones/)
