Title: OpenAI drops AI video tool Sora, startling Disney, sources say | Reuters
Date: 2026-03-25 15:29:36
Author: Doug
Category: Web
Tags: openai, sora, link, 
Summary: March 24 (Reuters) - On Monday evening, Walt Disney Co (DIS.N), opens new tab and OpenAI teams ​were working together on a project linked to Sora, OpenAI's AI video tool. Just 30 minutes after that meeting, the Disney ‌team was blindsided with word that OpenAI was dropping the tool altogether, a person familiar with the matter said.

> March 24 (Reuters) - On Monday evening, Walt Disney Co (DIS.N), opens new tab and OpenAI teams ​were working together on a project linked to Sora, OpenAI's AI video tool. Just 30 minutes after that meeting, the Disney ‌team was blindsided with word that OpenAI was dropping the tool altogether, a person familiar with the matter said.
> OpenAI announced the move publicly on Tuesday.
> "It was a big rug-pull," according to the person, who requested anonymity to discuss the matter.
> The move is the first big step by the ChatGPT maker to focus its business on potentially more lucrative areas such as ​coding tools and corporate customers.
> But the abrupt cancellation of Sora illustrates how messy the streamlining process may become as OpenAI prepares for a stock ​market debut that could come as early as later this year.
> The Sora decision means the end of a blockbuster $1 billion ⁠deal between Disney and the ChatGPT maker that was announced a little more than three months ago. As part of the three-year deal, Disney said it would ​invest $1 billion in OpenAI and lend more than 200 of its iconic characters to be used in short, AI-generated videos.
> But the transaction between the companies never ​closed, two other people familiar with the matter said, and no money changed hands.
> OpenAI executives have been debating Sora's fate for some time. Running the AI video app required significant computational resources, a fourth person with knowledge of the matter said, and left other teams with less firepower.

[Read the full article at www.reuters.com](https://www.reuters.com/technology/openai-set-discontinue-sora-video-platform-app-wsj-reports-2026-03-24/)
