Title: After ChatGPT Translate, Google Releases Multiple Open-Source Translation Models | Technology News
Date: 2026-01-18 00:13:11
Author: Doug
Category: Web
Tags: llm, translator, link, gemma, 
Summary: Google's aggressive artificial intelligence (AI) push has not slowed down in 2026. The company has already announced a partnership with Apple, released new shopping tools and a protocol, introduced Personal Intelligence in Gemini and added the chatbot to its Trends website. Now, the company has shifted its focus towards the open community with the release of TranslateGemma models. These multilingual AI models are designed to support translation between a large number of languages across text and image (input only) modalities.

> Google's aggressive artificial intelligence (AI) push has not slowed down in 2026. The company has already announced a partnership with Apple, released new shopping tools and a protocol, introduced Personal Intelligence in Gemini and added the chatbot to its Trends website. Now, the company has shifted its focus towards the open community with the release of TranslateGemma models. These multilingual AI models are designed to support translation between a large number of languages across text and image (input only) modalities.
> 
> TranslateGemma Models Released
> In a blog post, the Mountain View-based tech giant released three different variants of the TranslateGemma AI models. These models are available to download on Google's Hugging Face listing and Kaggle's website. Additionally, developers and enterprises can also access them via Vertex AI, the company's cloud-based AI hub. These models are available with a permissive licence allowing both academic and commercial use cases.
> 
> TranslateGemma is available in 4B, 12B, and 27B sizes (where 4B refers to four billion parameters). The smallest model is said to be optimised for mobile and edge deployment, and the 12B variant is designed for consumer laptops. The largest 27B model offers maximum fidelity and can be run locally on a single Nvidia H100 GPU or TPU.

[Read the full article at www.gadgets360.com](https://www.gadgets360.com/ai/news/google-translategemma-open-source-translation-ai-models-released-chatgpt-translate-10764836)
