Title: Pushover: Simple Notifications for Android, iPhone, iPad, and Desktop
Date: 2023-12-03 19:38:01
Author: Doug
Category: Web
Tags: push, messages, curl, notification, api, link, 
Summary: Powered by Pushover

> Powered by Pushover
> 
> With our Android, iPhone & iPad, and Desktop Browser clients, you can receive unlimited push notifications on all of your devices from dozens of websites, services, and applications that already integrate with Pushover. Just supply your Pushover User Key or your Pushover e-mail address and you'll be getting push notifications in an instant.
> 
> Pushover for Teams
> 
> Pushover for Teams is a monthly service offering for organizations sending messages to multiple users and includes a number of extra features such as user management and failover SMS message delivery. Pricing is per month, per user, and more information can be found on our Teams page.
> 
> Pushover for Everyone
> 
> Individuals and organizations not needing our Team features can use Pushover for Android, iOS, and Desktop for a simple one-time in-app purchase on each platform where you need it, after a 30-day free trial. Individuals can use Pushover with no subscription fees.
> 
> Simple Integration
> 
> For developers, system administrators, and everyone with just some technical savvy, our API makes it easy to integrate Pushover into your web app, network monitor, shell script, and anything else you can think of to send notifications to yourself or thousands of users. Pushing messages is as easy as using the HTTP libraries available in nearly every programming language with no custom modules required.

[Read the full article at pushover.net](https://pushover.net/)
