Title: pelican-plugins/jinja2content: Use Jinja2 template code within post content
Date: 2022-01-07 00:18:47
Author: Link
Category: Link
Tags: pelican, jinja, static, website, link, 
Summary: This plugin allows the use of Jinja2 directives inside your Pelican articles and pages.

> This plugin allows the use of Jinja2 directives inside your Pelican articles and pages.
> 
> In this approach, your content is first rendered by the Jinja template engine. The result is then passed to the normal Pelican reader as usual. There are two consequences for usage. First, this means the Pelican context and Jinja variables usually visible to your article or page template are not available at rendering time. Second, it means that if any of your input content could be parsed as Jinja directives, they will be rendered as such. This is unlikely to happen accidentally, but it’s good to be aware of.
> 
> All input that needs Pelican variables such as article, category, etc., should be put inside your theme’s templating. As such, the main use of this plugin is to automatically generate parts of your articles or pages.
> 
> Markdown, reStructured Text, and HTML input are all supported. Note that by enabling this plugin, all input files of these file types will be pre-processed with the Jinja renderer. It is not currently supported to selectively enable or disable jinja2content for only some of these input sources.

[Link to the original article](https://github.com/pelican-plugins/jinja2content)
